= FROST Federation

Radpool depends on a federation of nodes that run the
https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/852.pdf[FROST threshold signature
protocol] as well as a proven distributed key generation protocol
included in the FROST paper (called KeyGen). We have an implementation
of a node for running a federation that uses KeyGen protocol to
determine a shared public key. The federation then uses the FROST
threshold signature protocol to sign bitcoin transaction used for
miner payouts - more on that later.

The https://github.com/pool2win/frost-federation:[FROST Federation
implementation] is an independent project as other applications apart
from Radpool will be able to use it for other purposes.

== Membership

The KeyGen protocol is run by all parties who want to participate in
the federation. This acts as a point of control where existing
federation members have to accept new members by successfully
completing a KeyGen protocol.

The syndicate membership protocol, described later, explains the rules
used by current members to accept new members for Radpool.

== Bitcoin Transaction

Once KeyGen has successfully completed, the membership is confirmed by
creating a bitcoin transaction where all members provide an input and
the output is controlled by the public key generated by running
KeyGen.

image::syndicate-transaction.png["Federation Transaction"]

The image above shows how the federation membership by the presence of
inputs controlled by the members of a federation.


== Federation Broadcast Communication

Once the membership is confirmed, FROST federation also provides a
reliable broadcast within the federation. We later use this broadcast
primitive to replicate shares received by a syndicate member to all
other syndicate members.

image::federation-broadcast.png[""]
