= Syndicate Protocols

The syndicate and miners follow a number of separate protocols to
enable the system to work together.

== Initial Setup - First MSP

To start a new syndicate, any node announces their network
address. The threshold for the threshold signature and syndicate size
is set to one.

Miners that want to join the syndicate initiate their registration
with the seed MSP and set their stratum end point to the MSP. At this
point, the sole syndicate member acts like a centralised pool
operator, with transparent share accounting.

== New MSP

To join the syndicate an MSP sends a JOIN request to one of the
existing MSPs who forward the request to all MSPs on the network. From
then on, the MSP can start forwarding shares from their miners to the
syndicate. The new member does not become a member of the signing
syndicate when it joins the syndicate. Instead, the new member's
hashrate is considered valid to join the syndicate membership
according to the xref:frost-federation.adoc#_membership[Membership
protocol] only after it has forwarded hashrate from its miners for
2000 blocks.

This discourages attacks by MSPs that join the network obtain signing
priviliges in the syndicate without having any pending payouts for its
miners awaiting the syndicate's signature. The following object
interaction diagram shows the protocol used.

.New syndicate member
image::protocols/new-msp.png[New MSP Joins Syndicate]


== Forwarding Shares

When an MSP receives shares from its miners, it forwards them to all
other MSPs in the syndicate. The ownership of these shares can be
verified as explained in
xref:stratum.adoc#_verifiable_share_ownership[Verifiable Share
Ownership] section.

.Forward Shares
image::protocols/forward-shares.png[Forwarding Shares to Syndicate]


== MSP Exit

An MSP can leave the syndicate at any time. If the miners of an MSP
have a pending DLC contract, they will be able to redeem their
earnings by mining in co-operation with another MSP using the backup
MSP approach discussed xref:stratum.adoc#_backup_msps[Backup MSPs]
section.

== MSP Failures

If an MSP fails or is unresponsive, the syndicate continues to operate
as normal due to the robustness property of the threshold signing
protocol used that allows for a third of the members to fail and still
make progress. If more than a threshold number of syndicate members
fail, the pool reaches end of life and all syndicate members along
with miners can claim their outputs after the timeout expiry.
