= System Overview

The diagram below shows how the miners and syndicate members
communicate. Note, there is no peer to peer communication between
miners. The syndicate members use point to point communication for
replicating state across each other and to to run DKG and FROST
threshold signature protocols.

image::radpool-components.png[alt="system overview",width="100%"]

Miners register with any syndicate member, and then communicate with
the syndicate member's stratum instance.

Market makers who want to fund channels and take on the risks from
miners also communicate as a syndicate member. They essentially are
just another syndicate member. Note that, not all syndicate members
are market makers, but all market makers have to be syndicate members.

The syndicate member signs the shares it receives from the miner
before broadcasting them to the rest of the syndicate. This helps in
identifying the syndicate members that are serving each of the
miners. We will see later why this becomes important when it comes to
fee distribution among the syndicate members.

== Broadcast Communication

Syndicate members use a information dissemination protocol deployed in
some of the latest BFT agreement protocols to reliably disseminate
information using O(n|F|) communication complexity.

== Stratum

Syndicate members communicate with miners using the industry standard
stratum protocol. This allows miners with current and older equipment
to start using Radpool without any extra effort to run services on
site or find service providers to get access to Radpool.

Miners register with syndicate miners using the same web based or cli
based tools as they use to register with existing centralised pool
operators. The requirements to register with a syndicate member are
entirely up to the syndicate member and Radpool can't impose any
restrictions on these requirements.
